Let us look at next function that is substring.
This will take out the part of a string.
You can extract a portion of a string.
So like here I have an example that is a word programming instead.
And this is string.
Suppose I want to take out a substring.
So I will say str suppressed here.
From three now from 30 next onwards, it will give me the remaining string grabbing.
So whatever the index is given here, it will give the string starting from that index.
So all these remaining portion of the string is given as substring and it returns a string object.
It will create a new string object and it will return.
Even I can give a number of characters that I want in a substring.
So we start from three index three.
So one, two, three, four.
So I want up to here so I can mention four letters I want.
So it will give the word gram.
So you can just give the starting index and also starting index along with the number of letters that
you want.
So we'll see the name of this one.
But before that I will show you this function that is compared.
This will compare two strings, right?
This current string with another string.
So how the strings are compared already you have explained in the previous video I have discussed about
a function that is SWD RCMP.
So you can watch that video the same way it works.
It will compare to strings and dictionary order and returns the result that is -0 or positive.
So after comparing two strings, if the first is string, this a string itself is smaller, then it
returns negative.
Or if this is greater than this one that is comes after words in the dictionary, then it returns positive.
If both the strings are equal, then it will return zero.
Now let us look at the demonstration of both these functions.
That is a substring and compare strings.
So already I have a program ready here.
The string is programming.
Now I will call substring function and also I will display its results.
So see out struct substring and here the index.
I will give it as three.
Let us run and see.
So it has given a world that is growing.
So starting from index three onwards, it has given the rest of the string.
I have shown you one more version that I can mention, the number of characters that I want.
So here I have changed it to four.
Now let us see.
It will give four characters.
Yes, four characters are given.
So you can take out any portion of a string if you know the index and then you can mention the number
of letters also, and you can take out the portion of the string.
Now I will show you an X function that is comparing two strings.
So for that I will just change the strings here.
String str two and let it be.
Hello simple string I'm taking and I will change this one.
Also I will call this as str one and this is also help.
Now let us compare.
The both are same, the both are equal.
Right?
So I will directly display the result.
See out str one a dot compare str to see the function compare will be called upon str one and str two
is given as a parameter, so the function will take a str two and compare with its own object that is
str one.
Now, as both are equal, so it should return zero.
Yes.
Result is zero.
Now.
Here, I'll change the word, the second word.
I will call it as world.
Now W comes afterwards.
Right edge comes before W in dictionary.
So negative.
So which comes first?
The helo comes first.
So it means it is smaller than world, right?
So that's why it is returning a negative number.
And this 15 is the difference between the ASCII code of capital H and capital W uppercase.
Such an uppercase W and I will change it to the world.
Hello.
And I will use lowercase s here h and this is uppercase.
So
you should know that ASCII code cases are smaller than ASCII code of lowercase.
So still this two things are same, but the first string will be smaller than second string because
of the ASCII code of lower and uppercase.
Let us check.
So negative and 32 will be the result.
Yes.
The difference between ASCII codes of capital and smaller is 32 or any letter.
The difference between it's uppercase and lowercase is 32.
Now here I will change this to small edge and this to capital.
Let us see now.
So the first thing is greater str one is greater, so it has given positive result.
Now I'll change the word, I'll make it as morning.
And this is evening now.
Hm.
Comes after E.
Right, so let us check this.
So for strings greater second string is smaller, so the result is positive and it is eight.
So that's it.
So this is how you can compare two strings.
Now I will show you some operators define upon string class here.
Here I have some operators also I will show them.
Right.
But before that let me tell you about these.
See add suppose I have a string.
String is holiday.
Now this add function will give a letter at a particular index.
Now if I say str dot at.
And in this society 012, three, four, five, six.
Right.
If I say four, then that this will give the letter D.
So at index for the letter D is there so you can find out a letter at a given index.
So it is just like using this subscript operator.
So instead of writing it like this, even I can say star or four.
So yes, they should give the same thing.
That is a D letter D or I should be able to modify it also.
So steer or for.
If I want to store something else, I can store it.
So by using this operator I can read as well as I can write down the letters present at a given index.
So these two works in a similar way.
Now, one interesting thing to observe here is this is a member function and string is a class.
It is not an array, it's a class, it is not an array.
Then how this operator works on it.
So this is a overloaded operator inside C++ classes.
We can overload operators.
Also, we can define functions for operators or we can define a function member function.
As an operator, you will be learning this in one of the sections coming sections.
So this operators are already defined in this string class.
So it is having these operators and these are very useful operators.
So I have shown you about ADD and this is also subscript is also same.
Now these are simple functions, these two are fragments.
It will give you the first letter of a string that is edge and back means it will give you the last
letter of a string.
Let us look at these two plus operator.
Assignment operator.
So plus operator.
Suppose I have two strings.
String str one is.
Hello.
And one more string I have that is str too.
And a curse word.
Not two strings are there?
I want to join them.
I want to concatenate them.
Right.
Concatenation.
So for concatenation I can just use plus operator C++ additions.
But here upon string, the meaning is different.
It is concatenation.
So if I use plus operator on this, then it will become a single string.
That is hello world.
Hello world.
Right.
So it will combine the second string followed by first a string.
These two strings will become minor.
Have given space here.
If you give a space here, then space will appear.
Otherwise this letter w will be just beside this.
Oh, so this result is a string again.
So you can store it in some other variable like string SW three or str three.
So this will be stored in this one so we can concatenate by using plus operation.
Even I can say it like this.
Star one is the first is sitting right.
This is the first string star one plus and with space I will write word.
So I'm mentioning a string little here itself.
And this I want to store it in star one only.
So a star was already halo.
Now within that void is also concatenated and the result is stored in Star one.
Now str one has become a single string.
That is hello world.
Right.
It has become a single string.
That is hello world.
So.
So you can use concatenation then the last operator see already I have two strings here.
I'll show them here.
See if I write a str to assign str one so the contents of the first string will be copied in second
string.
This will be copied in second string.
Contents of this thing will be copied in second string.
So just by using assignment operator, the whole lot of content of this string will be copied in this
one.
So we already know that this is a string object.
There will be an array in which these characters are stored.
So all that array elements will be copied in the array of this str go.
So this is a simple and easy mechanism for a programmer.
It is a more programmer friendly feature that just you write assign it will copy the entire string.
So but internally this idea has to be copied.
Suppose this is a STR one and this is a str goes array.
This has to be copied.
So yes, this assignment operator will take care of copying everything from the system to the string.
So all these operators make the programming very simple and easy so we can easily use a string.
So that's all about all these operators.
Now, let me show you demonstration for this.
Here I have a string that is holiday.
Now let me show you add function.
So I will directly use the code and I will say str dot at index four.
So I should get a letter D.
Yes, I got a letter D and I said that even I can use subscript.
That is four.
So I should get a letter D now.
Yes.
See, one thing I will do, I said that we can read as well as write using this subscript operator.
So I will say str of four I will change it to something else.
Let us say capital M, letter capital M I will change it and here I will display str.
That is a string.
Let us see what happens.
See these go on and in place of de m is written here.
So yes, I can modify any particular character in a string.
Also by using this subscript by using add function.
Just you can read it, but by using subscript you can read as well as right if right here a of four
it will display this one.
So I am reading it.
But when I say str of four assign m, I'm writing into it.
So this is our subscript.
Now let me show you assignment as well as this concatenation.
So I will take one more string str two and I will call it as space world.
Right then here I will call it as str one and I will say hello.
Now here I have two strings and I am displaying string one so I should get a word that is.
Hello.
Yes it is displaying hello.
Now before this I will do concatenation as TR one plus str two and here I will store the result in str
one assign.
So here also assignment is used.
You can see these two are concatenated.
It becomes a string and that is assigned to a str one.
So str one should become hello world with a space in between.
Yes, it has become hello world.
Now here even they can write on string literal so word.
How are you?
So it becomes the single string.
Hello World.
How are you?
So here we have seen concatenation and assignment.
I will show you like this.
I will say start to just read the slide.
STR one assign str two and here it will display str one.
So str two is having vol so that will be assigned into first string.
Let's run it.
Yes.
The Times became war.
FDR one has became war.
Now, here.
I will also display str two.
So now both are same because the still two is stored in str one.
Yes, both are world.
So that's all these are the operations or operators upon string.
So you must check all these things, you must practice them.
Then next I will be showing you.
You must check all these things by yourself.
Just watching video will not help you.
You have to type this thing and practice a little bit.
So if you have tested all the functions that you can remember them and use them when required.
So check these things on your machine.